In this project, we want to justify whether the Generic Substitute (GS) and Restriction Index (RI) are efficient in controlling drugs costs. We analyzed collected data of “COST” (response) and related seven potential explanatory variables (including GS and RI) with several quantitative steps with different methods. And we drew a conclusion that ….

The histograms of all variables show skewness in GS, RI, COPAY and MM. Since in regression, all the independent variables need to be normally distributed, we use best Box-Cox transformation for each independent variable, and transform response variable accordingly. We will use GS^2, sqrt(RI), log(COPAY), and sqrt(MM) in our analysis. All other variables will stay the same. 

The scatter plots of each predictor versus COST have no apparent curvature so that we can predict COST using linear model. We fit a linear model of COST on all independent variables and check conditions. The regression function is:
  COST=beta0+beta1*RXPM+beta2*GS^2+beta3*sqrt(RI)+…….懒得写了
Residuals are homoscedasticity. Predicted values are normally distributed. Although there exist several outliers, all cook’s distances are less than 0.5 showing that there is no influential observation. Thus, there is no need to remove any single observations.

Then we test for possible polynomials and interactions in the regression. Using GAM, we find that sqrt(RI), its second power (RI) are significant in predicting COST. Thus, we also consider these two variables into our model. However, because of the collinearity between sqrt(RI) and RI (correlation=0.969), we use the deviation between the variable and its mean instead, i.e. RInew=sqrt(RI)-mean(sqrt(RI)), RI2new=(RInew)2. The polynomial is still significant in the linear model and correlation between sqrt(RI) and RI reduces to 0.192. We haven’t found any significant interaction terms. Now, the full model becomes
	COST=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
There is no apparent pattern in residuals. The predicted values are roughly normally distributed. There exists no influential point as all cook’s distances are less than 0.5. We also check for multicollinearity, and conclude there are no multicollineared predictors.
